ts enabled, I even removed restrictions from the API key so that should not be an issue. and the right key is in replit secrets
It's good that you've confirmed the Cloud Natural Language API is enabled and that your API key is unrestricted and correctly placed in Replit secrets. That narrows down the possibilities significantly.

The persistent "Sorry, I encountered an error. Please make sure your Gemini API key is configured correctly" message strongly suggests that your Replit application, or the specific code within it, is inadvertently trying to use the Gemini API instead of the Cloud Natural Language API.

Here's what to check next, focusing on the client-side configuration within your Replit app:

Review your code for google-generativeai or gemini references:
Search your entire Replit project's codebase for imports or calls related to google-generativeai , gemini , or any other libraries that might be for the Gemini API.
It's possible you might have a remnant from a previous example, a copy-pasted snippet, or a library dependency that is unexpectedly pulling in Gemini-related authentication.
Verify the Google Cloud client library you're using:
Make sure you are explicitly importing and initializing the Cloud Natural Language API client library .
For Python, this would typically look something like:
from google.cloud import language_v1
client = language_v1.LanguageServiceClient()
Generated code may be subject to license restrictions not shown here. Use code with care. Learn more 

Ensure you are not initializing a client like:
import google.generativeai as genai
genai.configure(api_key="YOUR_API_KEY") # This is for Gemini API
Generated code may be subject to license restrictions not shown here. Use code with care. Learn more 

If you're using a different language, confirm you're using the correct Google Cloud client library for Natural Language.
Check your environment variable names in Replit:
While you've confirmed the key is in Replit secrets, double-check the name of the environment variable your code is trying to read.
For instance, if your code expects NATURAL_LANGUAGE_API_KEY but your secret is named GOOGLE_API_KEY or GEMINI_API_KEY , that could cause a problem.
The standard way to provide API keys for Google Cloud client libraries (when not using service accounts) is often through an environment variable that the library implicitly looks for, or explicitly passing it during client initialization. However, if the error specifically mentions "Gemini API key", it's likely a misconfiguration at the code level trying to use the Gemini library.
Consider how the API key is passed (if not using environment variables):
Are you explicitly passing the api_key argument when initializing your LanguageServiceClient ? If so, ensure that the variable holding your key is indeed the one from your Replit secret.
The core of the problem is likely that despite your intention to use the Cloud Natural Language API, some part of your application's code is attempting to authenticate with or initialize a client for the Gemini API, and that's where the error message originates.